# Code of Conduct: The Philosophy of Absurd Saga

The underlying philosophy of the game Absurd Saga is important to establish early on in order to make sure it is adhered to and that the game reflects this vision. This document is the Code of Conduct for this project for all its contributors to follow.

First of all are the aspects of the game itself. It needs to have an easy user interface that almost anyone can use, including those with disabilities and those who are beginners to video games, while also having an enthralling experience for seasoned gamers as well by offering fun, rewarding, and interesting gameplay to those who play it.

It needs to be available on every major operating system, e.g. Windows, Mac, Linux, Android, and iOS for starters as well as being playable over the web in a web browser. It needs to be both downloadable for people to play offline and playable online in a browser without downloading anything at all.

Financial barriers to entry for playing the game should not exist, such as having to pay for it before playing. The game needs to be completely free so anyone can play it.

Other barriers like language differences should also be overcome and it should be translated into all the major written languages of the world so that anyone who can read any major language on Earth can play it. A list of languages by total number of speakers can be found [on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_languages_by_total_number_of_speakers), although this is for spoken languages, not written languages. So for instance, we need to have both Simplified Chinese and Traditional Chinese, as different written forms of Chinese, but the different spoken forms of Chinese are mostly irrelevant except for the text-to-speech feature of the game engine. The game mostly relies on written text, though.

The game should eliminate all the different obstacles to games being fun that are so ever-present nowadays in many games, especially mobile games. Microtransactions, ads, requiring a constant Internet connection, being pay to win, needing to create an account and password, being a buggy mess that crashes, excessive grinding, inventory management, timed events, a confusingly complicated user interface, and parts of the game where you get stuck and need a walkthrough, these are all very annoying.

Microtransactions are a big problem on mobile games and increasingly more games for computers or game consoles are starting to have them too, where you have to pay extra money to access certain features or content in a game or get certain bonuses or DLC.

Ads are also a major annoyance in many games nowadays and we need to not have any of those at all. This started out being a big thing on mobile games but has also moved to desktop too, unfortunately. Ads also destroy immersion and either interrupt the game or take up screen real estate and take you somewhere you don’t want to go if you accidentally click on them. A good game is an immersive experience and ads distract from that in an unwanted way.

Requiring a constant Internet connection is another big downer in lots of games, although Absurd Saga has both a downloadable version where you don’t need an Internet connection and an online version you can play without downloading and by its very nature the online version might require a constant Internet connection, but hopefully it would download everything it needs into the web browser cache at the beginning and remain in the web browser cache if you get disconnected. So it would still not require any sort of constant connection to a server like MMORPGs, especially gacha games, do. There are also many games that require an Internet connection for no reason just to authenticate that the user has purchased a legitimate copy even though the game content could be all playable offline, an unfortunate annoying trend pioneered by Blizzard Entertainment for its popular game franchises.

Being pay to win is a huge problem for many “free” games nowadays, where the game itself is free but you can pay for microtransactions to do better, especially common in the gacha genre and mobile gaming. Not having microtransactions at all eliminates the possibility for this to even happen.

Needing to create an account and password is also super annoying with many games, because people have to keep track of so many accounts and passwords and it is such a hassle. You should not have to login just to play a game like Absurd Saga, you should just be able to play it without any of that nonsense.

Being a buggy mess that crashes is another problem in many games, especially if something is written from scratch instead of with an existing game engine that is stable. Luckily Absurd Saga is written in a stable game engine that has been developed for many years and its code will be fairly simple and straightforward so the chances of it being a buggy mess that crashes are virtually nonexistent.

Excessive grinding is a problem in many RPGs, and Absurd Saga is an RPG. This is when you have to keep putting in time and effort to level up or get more money or resources or better stats or equipment in order to progress in the main game and advance the plot. So we are definitely going to get rid of that problem that a lot of other RPGs have by having this one have a difficulty level that automatically adjusts to the player’s skill level and does not need to be manually set. So if someone wants to progress further in the game, they can do it without any obstacles. But if they actually do want to do grinding type behavior, that should also be an option, just not mandatory, completely optional. Typically in this type of game, if you progress as fast as possible without grinding, it is more difficult, but if you do a lot of grinding, everything becomes much easier the more of that you do. However, we do not want to do that because it incentivizes grinding and grinding is boring, we don’t want to make people do anything that is boring, we want the game to be fun. So the difficulty level will actually increase to a harder level whenever you are successful at things and having an easy time, and decrease whenever you fail at something and have difficulties.

Inventory management is an annoying thing in many American and European RPGs but usually not a thing in Japanese or other Asian RPGs. The Diablo and Fallout series or otherwise awesome games like Planescape Torment, Arcanum, and Disco Elysium all have inventory management where you have a limited capacity of things you can carry around and you have to arrange them sometimes and you can’t carry around too much or you have problems. But in JRPGs like the Final Fantasy series, Chrono Trigger, Secret of Mana, etc., generally you can just carry around as much stuff as you want except you might be capped at 99 of each item. There actually is limited inventory space in a lot of the Final Fantasy games, actually, which is an annoyance, like a limited number of inventory slots that is smaller than the number of types of items. Chrono Trigger is an example of a game without any inventory management at all where you can just carry as much as you want and it works perfectly without any hassles or ever worrying about what you are carrying. That is the most fun way to do things.

Timed events are another annoyance in many games. There are 2 types of timed events. First, there are events that happen, typically in games that are online, where for something like a few days or a week or a month or something, or in other games shorter events that might just be a few minutes or an hour, there is an event going on in the game that you can do for a limited time only, and then after it is over it is unavailable. So the player has time pressure to get stuff done in the event before losing access to that game content. That is super annoying and very common in mobile games unfortunely.

Another type of timed event is to have a limited amount of time to do something in a game, as a sort of timed challenge, a test of skill. That is common in many classic video games and some people actually do find it fun for there to be a timer as a way to have a challenge. Games like the Super Mario Brothers series or Lemmings series or many others rely very heavily on having people have a timer to finish a level of a game in. But this just adds unnecessary stress to the player to have to hurry and do things fast, instead of being allowed to take as much time as they want to do something. Some RPGs have turn-based combat systems where you can take all the time you want while others have real-time combat systems where you have to fight enemies in real time and react quickly, and a lot of times it is a hybrid approach where there is a timer but sometimes when it is your turn you can get into a certain menu and the game is basically paused until you make a decision but then other times you need to react quickly. Absurd Saga is going to just be completely without any timers at all and not have these sorts of challenges because they are an annoyance to people who have difficulties with doing things under time pressure, and for anyone who has taken tests or worked at a job, you have dealt with enough time pressure already, time pressure feels more like a work thing than a play thing to a lot of people and this game should be fun and should not feel like doing work.

A confusingly complicated user interface is a problem in lots of games nowadays, also, and also there were games in the past like this too. Gacha games are some of the worst offenders in this regard, as usual, making RPGs worse, with too much stuff going on in the interface, too many different stats and currencies and nonsense to keep track of at once. Having things simpler as far as the interface makes it a lot easier for new players, but also there are quite a few games with simple interfaces that are surprisingly fun and addictive even for veteran gamers who play video games all the time. The simpler the interface, the more people can play it without any difficulty or getting confused by it and just enjoy playing it. Absurd Saga has a visual novel-style interface and is written in a game engine designed specifically for games with that type of interface, which makes it ideal for ignoring this common pitfall in game design.

Parts of the game where you get stuck and need a walkthrough are also unfortunately common in many games, even in many of the best and most fun games out there. But it should not be necessary to look up information about the game you are playing on a website or look up a walkthrough online. You should not need to look up cheat codes to be able to beat a game, or need to look up secrets or Easter eggs in a game that are hidden. A game should not be trying to give players a hard time like that so they feel compelled to consult some external reference. That also destroys immersion because when you pause or stop the game to go look at a walkthrough or wiki or some other reference, you are no longer playing the game, and are reading about the game somewhere else. The game itself should be its own explanation, its own walkthrough, it should be self-explanatory and require no external reference of any kind. There should not be any need for cheat codes or anything, the game itself should adjust its difficulty to be playable enough not to require such hassles out of players. So obviously, Absurd Saga will not require any of that stuff to play it, you will just be able to play it and learn by doing and never need any reference ever.

Development of the game itself should not be too complicated and the game engine should be one appropriate for a game of this type. The [Ren'Py game engine](https://www.renpy.org/) is completely perfect for the purposes of this project Absurd Saga. Ren'Py makes it easy to port the game to all the different platforms we want to support, from all the major operating systems to the web version, it makes it easy to have translations, the code in Ren'Py is very simple and basically just a script without much programming knowledge needed, and it is easy to add graphics and music.

As far as graphics and music that are added, as well as the game script itself, everything needs to be under free licenses. The game itself including code and script is under the [MIT License](https://github.com/absurdsaga/absurdsaga/tree/main?tab=License-1-ov-file), a very open and inclusive license that allows almost anything. That way people are free to do basically anything including using this game to create derivative works, to create their own games based on it that they write themselves by modifying Absurd Saga. This can help turn it into an open and collaborative project with multiple people working on it and maintaining it. At the moment, the images in the game are all public domain under the [CC0 public domain dedication](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) and the music is all licensed under the [Pixabay Content License](https://pixabay.com/service/license-summary), meaning, only public domain images are used currently, and all music in the game is from the site Pixabay which allows it to be freely used and that website has a lot of good music freely available under that license.

It is a bit easier to draw pictures than compose and perform music, so we will try to keep all the images public domain, but as far as the music, it is hard to find good public domain music, whereas Pixabay has a ton of great music freely available. It is difficult to find a good composer or someone with high quality music downloads for free that are all legal. Doing artwork is a more common skill than making music, and it is perfectly feasible for a game to keep all of its artwork public domain or at the very least have it under open licenses such as Creative Commons licenses.

As far as AI-generated content, AI slop, low-quality content generated by AI that is uncreative and has flaws in it, is very common nowadays, so we are not going to allow any of that garbage in Absurd Saga. Generative AI models also typically rely on training data that violates copyrights of artists and authors who did not give permission for their work to be used, so it is a copyright violation to use it even if courts generally allow it. It is something most artists detest, and Absurd Saga aims to be a game that artists would want to work on and be happy contributing to so it should not use any generative AI.

However, there are other types of AI besides generative AI that are not controversial at all. AI has been in games for many decades, like being able to play against an AI player in a game, and there is nothing wrong with that, nobody in the world has a problem with that type of AI. There are also computer-generated images of various types such as fractals, which do not rely on training data like AI and do not violate any copyrights and are entirely generated by software and are not even AI at all but procedurally generated. These are totally fine because they are not generative AI (the harmful type of AI) and they do not violate copyrights and do not rip off other people’s work. Fractals are cool actually, and completely ethical, the Mandelbrot Set for instance is not a ripoff of anyone else’s work.

The only exception to the rule against generative AI is in doing translations. Machine translation software has always been AI. Transformers, the core architecture behind LLMs, Large Language Models, were developed by Google to improve its Google Translate service, which now uses them. LLMs are very good at doing machine translation, even though they are extremely uncreative and never come up with new or original ideas. Machine translation is not as good as human translation, though. This game should be available in all the major languages of the world. It is not a copyright violation to simply use an LLM to translate text from this game from one language into a different language. The reason to have it available in as many languages as possible is so that as many people as possible all over the world can play the game. And the reason it is OK to use LLMs for translation sometimes is this is a free volunteer project not trying to make a profit and we want to reach people all over the world and older pre-Transformer LLM algorithms have been used by people for machine translation in things like Google Translate forever, and the only text we will ever be getting out of LLMs in these translations is text that the authors of this game wrote themselves which will go back into this game, we are not having it generate new text or having it imitate any other text not written specifically for this game, it is not plagiarizing. This game should be available in like, 20 or more languages, for free, and that is pretty hard to achieve just using volunteers. However, the original scripts for this game, the original text prior to the translation, all of it has to be completely human-written. No AI usage for writing the original script, or making images or anything else! Only for machine translation and nothing else, that is the policy.

However we do ideally want people who are native speakers of different languages to proofread and improve the translations into other languages and make them sound better and make more sense and also be funnier as far as they are written. But if there are funny translation errors that are like “All your base are belong to us”, honestly maybe we should leave those in, in a lot of the translations. We would want human translations to replace machine translations whenever possible. The human translations should ideally be gag translations that add additional jokes to things and also localize things and add references to whatever culture is associated with the language you are translating to, and should have deliberate inaccuracies in them put in on purpose by the human translators, and take liberties with the original script. But all the jokes need to be written by humans and not AI because AI is not funny and it can only come up with corny dad jokes that suck, only humans have an actual sense of humor. Human translations are definitely preferable to machine translations so any improvements to the translations by human translators will be gratefully accepted, including improvements that make them less accurate translations yet also funnier.

So overall this game Absurd Saga is an RPG, a role-playing game, with a visual novel-style interface, written in the Ren'Py game engine, and open source. That is not the most common type of game but it has been done before, for instance the immediate sequel to the game Chrono Trigger prior to Chrono Cross was the game Radical Dreamers, which was pretty close to being an RPG with a visual novel-style interface. Except actually it wasn’t. It was a visual novel with some RPG-style elements, something known as a sound novel at the time, which was in the mid-1990s, very early in the history of visual novels, before most of the standard conventions of the visual novel genre were now standardized.

Now why exactly is Absurd Saga an RPG with a visual novel-style interface instead of just a visual novel? Well, pure visual novels have very little in the way of gameplay and you basically just read text and occasionally make decisions, and if you make the correct decisions there is zero difficulty, and you can find out the correct decisions by consulting a walkthrough. Which is also very similar to an earlier genre of game that was popular in the 1980s called text adventures, text adventures like Zork or Colossal Cave Adventure were quite easy if you just entered in the correct commands in order. Text adventures had a more difficult interface because you had to memorize a rather arbitrary list of commands and they were sort of like a command-line interface and that was annoying. Visual novels are a more modern genre but the amount of actual gameplay in them is very minimal, they are mostly just a storytelling medium for immersive fiction that has multiple different routes and endings and they also typically include images and music and often even have voice acting, and if they have anime-style characters, they are sort of like a more interactive way of watching anime, and extremely immersive. But at the end of the day, they are mostly just a storytelling medium in their present form, and are not as interactive as they could be, without as much user/player choice about what happens as they could be, with the plot generally being rather linear and players not having as much freedom to do different things as in other genres such as RPGs.

So why not have Absurd Saga just be an RPG with a regular RPG interface? Well, the interfaces of most RPGs are a bit complicated and not the most accessible, and they are device-specific. For instance, RPGs written for classic game consoles rely on an interface of pushing the different buttons on the gamepad. RPGs written for computers generally have a keyboard and mouse interface. RPGs for mobile devices like smartphones have a touch interface. They often have a bunch of different menus and complicated interfaces and are specific to one kind of device. This causes problems for things like having it be playable by people who are not into gaming or having it be ported between different types of device. But the visual novel style of interface is something that works on all different devices. You can use the same interface on a computer with a keyboard and mouse, or a smartphone or tablet with a touchscreen, or a game console with a gamepad controller, or a smart TV with a remote control. A visual novel interface just has you pick between a few buttons or options, and all of those different control systems all work equally well and are very intuitive for picking between the different buttons or options. The visual novel interface is just more user-friendly and more consistent across all different types of electronic devices that can be used for gaming. It is the peak of user-friendly, consistent, intuitive cross-platform user interface design for video games to use a visual novel-style interface, so that is what Absurd Saga is doing.

Now another aspect of the game is bad endings or deaths or game overs. It is a classic thing in many games to sometimes lose the game, you get a bad ending, or you die, or it says game over, or something like that. This is annoying when it happens because losing is frustrating if you don’t want it to happen, and you have to go back to before you made whatever mistake led to you dying or getting a bad ending and try again, and put in all this extra work, and remember to save your game regularly. But some games in the past have developed alternate systems for this. Now, Chrono Trigger did not have an alternate system for when you die, you actually would have to go back to the last saved game, but it had something cool called a New Game+ or New Game Plus that it pioneered that many games copied since then, where after you beat the game it unlocks other possibilities and you can keep stuff like stats and equipment you got in a previous game. In most visual novels nowadays, to achieve 100% completion, people often have to get each of the different endings, including the bad endings, at least once, so people deliberately collect all the different bad endings on purpose in order to collect them all and get to that 100% completion mark. In some roguelike games like NetHack, there is a similar mechanic that arose kind of accidentally called YASD, Yet Another Stupid Death, where the game has all sorts of wild and wacky different possibilities of things that could happen, and all sorts of different possible ways your player character can get killed, almost endless lists of different possibilities, and a lot of players are more interested in finding out more of those possibilities than actually beating those games, which is silly but also fun.

Then there is the game Planescape Torment which introduced a new RPG game mechanic where your player is sort of immortal, and can technically be “killed”, but is almost immediately resurrected after “dying” whenever it happens, and it is part of the game, so even if things go wrong and you screw up and get yourself killed, you can just keep playing without getting a game over. Now this is actually the most awesome way of doing this and very fun. If you combine this with the Yet Another Stupid Death thing from certain complicated wacky roguelikes like NetHack, in the spirit of collecting different bad endings like in a visual novel, you can turn your character dying from an annoyance that gives you a game over into regular part of gameplay that is actually fun, but you need your character to get resurrected whenever they are killed, like in Planescape Torment. And it can be sort of like the New Game+ in Chrono Trigger, too, where you get to keep everything but maybe the story might start over or have other possibilities or something. Anyway, Absurd Saga is generally going the same route as Planescape Torment for ordinary deaths, but as far as when you reach the end of the game, it will continue in a manner similar to a New Game+ and basically just have an endless game loop so that even after you beat the game you can keep playing as long as you want. That seems to be the most fun system that doesn’t force players to start over from scratch or tell them that they failed and need to reload from the last saved game or anything, Absurd Saga is going to have the type of game design where you can just keep playing as long as you want no matter what happens, even if you get killed or beat the game, you can still continue playing as long as you want. And you can also save and load the game at any time, and if you don’t like what happens, you can reload from a previous saved game. So this gives the player maximum flexibility and fun and avoids annoyances like the frustration of losing, or how after you beat a game and see the ending, with a lot of games, it is just over and you can’t keep playing after that even if you really want to. With Absurd Saga, you will always be able to keep playing, no matter what happens.

But that just covers the philosophy of the game design for the game itself, not for what happens in it, like the plot or characters or setting or themes. There are also many other aspects to the philosophy of Absurd Saga that are important. First of all, it is an absurd saga, hence the name Absurd Saga. It is quite absurd and it is a saga of different things that happen. There is also a RPG video game series and franchise called SaGa which has many cool features, but this is not SaGa, SaGa is a specific game franchise owned by Square Enix and as independent game developers we cannot make SaGa games.

But what we can do is make Saga games, games in the spirit of anime that have Saga in the name, in the spirit of Excel Saga, Zombie Land Saga, and Vinland Saga. Excel Saga was an experimental gag anime and parody of other anime, and Absurd Saga aims to do something very similar in spirit. Excel Saga would do different ridiculous things in each episode and was the most hilarious show ever. Obviously that was awesome. Excel Saga also had the main heroine be a brainwashed follower of a villainous mastermind and leader of an evil organization aimed at world domination, except to be more realistic, it aimed at dominating the local municipal government first and starting out by conquering one city before conquering the country and then the world, and the heroine whose name was Excel Excel was kind of oblivious to the fact that she was a member of an evil organization and thought she was doing good things and had no idea about the difference between good and evil and was kind of crazy. Which was just hilarious. Zombie Land Saga was also a funny parody show based on this ridiculous premise of a necromancer who is also an idol group manager who raises a bunch of young women from the dead to have them return as zombies and do musical and dance performances as an idol band, in Saga prefecture of Japan, to try to save Saga prefecture from destruction. Amazing show. Vinland Saga is a much more serious show, not a comedy at all, about this kid who suffers through a lot of stuff and joins this group of violent mercenaries in medieval times even though he hates the leader of the group and wants him dead, and later he tries to atone for his sins after growing up, but the main character is definitely not heroic, at least not early in the story, and actually kind of a bad guy, and there is something seriously wrong with him, he is seriously messed up in the head, although later he eventually becomes more heroic. Which makes things a lot more interesting than a show focused on a heroic main character who is just obviously a good guy.

So in the spirit of that, of the animes Excel Saga, Zombie Land Saga, and Vinland Saga, the game Absurd Saga has a rather crazy main protagonist who definitely has something wrong with them, and is quite absurdist and should at least hopefully be funny. And the main protagonist you play as should, at least most of the time, be more of a villain than a hero, but not because of having evil or malicious motivations. Another inspiration for Absurd Saga is shounen anime, that is, anime where some guy and his friends go around fighting people all the time and beating up bad guys in order to save the world or whatever. Like there is the Dragon Ball series where Goku mostly just likes fighting but ends up wanting to protect the Earth. Or Bleach where Ichigo just wants to protect his friends but has to keep fighting bad guys to do that even though he doesn’t really have much in the way of ambitions. Or Naruto where Naruto wants to become the leader of his ninja village and is really ambitious even though he starts out as a failure at everything. Or Black Clover where Asta wants to become the Wizard King even though he doesn’t have any magical abilities at all. Or a bunch of others like that. But none of those are quite what I am going for except for a certain one called One Piece that is the most popular, where this crazy little guy Luffy wants to be King of the Pirates, and he is a pirate, and pirates are usually bad guys, and he goes around fighting Marines and overthrowing governments and causing chaos everywhere, and most people in his world actually see Marines as the good guys and think Luffy is a dangerous outlaw who should be stopped. Although actually he is a hero and mostly does good things despite being a pirate and a notorious outlaw. But what if there were a dangerous and ambitious wacky character like Luffy or Naruto or Asta where this character actually was a bad guy and causing more harm than good but didn’t even realize it and thought they were a good guy? Which is basically the situation with the main character Excel Excel in Excel Saga. Anyway, Absurd Saga is going to try to be like that and have a main character who thinks they are heroic but is actually a villain without even realizing it, and goes around causing chaos just like some of these other characters but is actually harmful and not really fixing things at all.

Also nowadays there is a lot of stuff set in very dystopian, messed up settings that are horrible, where the main character is a hero who goes around fighting against that and fixing things and making them better. But that is the kind of thing that needs to be parodied. So Absurd Saga is actually set in a wonderful utopia where things are really great, and the main character is insane and thinks it is a dystopia even though most other people think it is great and love it just the way it is, and the main character goes around ruining things that were previously perfectly fine.

Another aspect to Absurd Saga is it will try to deal with political theories and ideologies like some other games such as Disco Elysium. Disco Elysium handled this very well in a sort of parody way while being set in a dystopian setting. But Absurd Saga is going to be like that except with another layer of parody beyond Disco Elysium, as well as parodying itself. This requires Absurd Saga to be set in a completely bizarre backwards world where logic and common sense operate completely differently from the real world and things that make sense in our real world are nonsense in its world, and things that make sense in its world are nonsense in our world. Essentially the Overton Window of acceptable ideas in the real world and in Absurd Saga should not intersect at all and should be completely opposed to each other, so that almost anyone of any ideology in one world would see almost anyone of any ideology in the other world as being wrong about everything. But this requires the world itself to operate completely differently, by different rules. Which of course is how things will work.

So in the real world, we have material reality, things that physically exist and are governed by the laws of physics. Empirical reality, that can be tested through science and people can deduce how it works. Magic is just make-believe and not actually a thing in our world. You can’t just alter the world around you by believing in something strongly and trying to “manifest” it, that doesn’t work. Some people might believe in that sort of thing but they are delusional. In our real world, that is. But in the world of Absurd Saga, everything is the exact opposite.

The world of Absurd Saga should be familiar to many people, especially if they know the isekai genre of anime or have played fantasy RPGs before or know about things like Lord of the Rings, which was the main inspiration for the fantasy genre in the first place. At first glance it is a typical fantasy world. There are elves, dwarves, giants, robots, aliens. There is magic. What people believe actually does effect things because of the whole magic being real thing. But Absurd Saga takes things a little further than usual. Absurd Saga has no limits on this at all, similar to in the anime Gurren Lagann where people with Spiral Power have no limits on their abilities as long as they believe in themselves strongly enough. But Absurd Saga takes this far beyond most fiction to turn it into a completely counterintuitive world that seems utterly nonsensical to anyone from our world. In the world of Absurd Saga, the ability of literally anyone to manifest what they believe into reality is far beyond even the most powerful characters in most of fiction. If you compare Absurd Saga to for instance the visual novels Chaos;Head and Chaos;Child where certain people called gigalomaniacs have the ability to alter reality under certain conditions, in Absurd Saga, every single person in existence has abilities like that far beyond any gigalomaniac in Chaos;Head or Chaos;Child. This is rather similar to Planescape Torment, which also has this sort of phenomenon but to a lesser extent, for instance if the player character pretends like there is a person named “Adahn” enough times, “Adahn” actually comes into existence temporarily and gives the player character some stuff and then disappears again because Adahn is imaginary after all.

But that is child’s play compared to the world of Absurd Saga. In the world of Absurd Saga, not only could literally anyone do that trick of making some made-up character come into existence, but it would be permanent and permanently alter reality. In Absurd Saga, the idea of having laws of physics makes no sense because the way things physically behave is inconsistent and doesn’t follow any consistent laws in the first place. Magic is fundamental to reality, not science. Science is a rather silly endeavor in the world of Absurd Saga. That idea of magic and science being in conflict is a major theme in another RPG that is also part of the inspiration for Absurd Saga, Arcanum, but in Arcanum, there is a sort of uneasy balance between magic and technology, and magic used to be more powerful in the past but now technology is taking over and weakening magic. In the world of Absurd Saga, there is no balance at all, there is a complete imbalance. But magic and technology or science are not necessarily in conflict, there could still maybe be magical technology. For instance, the robots in Absurd Saga are actually based on magical technology, a similar idea to Magitek in Final Fantasy 6.

But the whole thing is based on being a parody of the real world. And also an ideological parody of the Marxist ideology of dialectical materialism. According to dialectical materialism, well, it is a form of materialism where the real, physical world we can empirically observe and study through science is the only thing that is actually real, and ideas and ideologies are fake, but still impact reality, because people who believe in them take actions in the real world based on them, and so on. It is kind of complicated but the important thing that is being parodied here is materialism and science and the idea of a single empirical reality that follows rational rules. So, prior to Marxism there was this philosopher Hegel whose philosophy is described as dialectical idealism, and he believed in ideas but not material reality. This is considered silly by Marxists. The Slovenian Marxist philosopher Slavoj Žižek often derisively calls things he finds silly and not based in the real world “pure idealism”, meaning, they are just ideas with no basis in physical reality at all. Anyway, Absurd Saga takes place in a world of pure idealism as Žižek would call it, a world governed by what people might call “vulgar Hegelianism”, where ideas are the basis for all reality and physical existence is secondary to ideas and can be altered if people change their ideas and what they believe in.

Another aspect of Absurd Saga is, at least at the beginning, it takes place in a utopia. Specifically, it takes place in an anarcho-communist utopia of the type advocated by the Russian anarchist philosopher Peter Kropotkin. That is a post-scarcity society where everyone has everything they need in abundance and doesn’t need to work anymore. The idea of money is nonsensical in such a society because money is a means of exchange and nobody ever needs to exchange anything, there is more than enough of everything for everyone so you can simply take what you want for free, everything is free, if you showed someone money they would think it is a joke like Monopoly money and not think it is worth anything. There would be no type of money at all that anyone would take seriously as having any value to exchange for goods or services because eveyone already has all the goods or services they want or need. Some people still do work but they do it by choice, not because they have to.

Or rather, this is nowadays given a longer name, “Fully Automated Luxury Gay Space Communism”, where everything is fully automated by robotics, everyone lives lives of luxury, many people are LGBTQIA+ because there are no gender norms or sexualities that are imposed on people by society and people are free to explore that however they want without being judged, a lot of it is in space because humanity has enough abundance of things and technology to have moved into outer space, and the communism part refers to the definition of communism as being a stateless, classless, moneyless society. Which is technically the end goal of most communists, but more often associated with anarchists because it is what anarchists tend to advocate more immediately without needing any intermediate stage. Another aspect of this is obviously that there is no government but instead anarchy. And no for-profit businesses but instead every enterprise with multiple people would be run democratically or by consensus as some sort of worker-run co-op. That is worker control of the means of production. Except in a post-scarcity society, it doesn’t even honestly matter who controls the means of production and nobody cares anymore because everyone has everything they want anyway and it is quite easy for anyone to acquire the means to produce whatever they want. In such a society, not only is there no class conflict or different social classes, but the very idea of class conflict is ridiculous because literally everyone lives in luxury and everyone is in the highest, most elite class, it is impossible not to be in the highest class. There is also no social hierarchy and nobody is in charge of anyone else.

Anyway, that is the sort of world that Absurd Saga takes place in, although it has a dark history where it used to not be a utopia and it only achieved that through great difficulty of revolutionaries in the past. And in that respect its history is maybe a little like our own history in the real world. But where it differs is that the people in the world of Absurd Saga have successfully gotten through all those difficulties in the past and now genuinely do live in a really great utopia. But our protagonist, our main character, our player character that you play as in the game, is someone who doesn’t believe this, who is convinced this is actually a dystopia and not a utopia. And is wrong about it, kind of a crazy conspiracy theorist, always imagining social hierarchies and exploitation when they are not there, stuff like that. The main character ends up going around ruining things because, literally the only reason this whole utopia actually worked was people ended up all believing in it, and this is a universe governed by what people believe, where whatever they believe becomes the truth. But the player character, through disbelief in utopia and questioning everything, ends up destroying the utopia and turning it into a dystopia because of the way beliefs affect reality in this world. And doing it completely unintentionally while actually having the intention of fixing things. But the player character actually turns out to be a villainous counterrevolutionary who undoes everything good in the world through chaotic weaponized incompetence.

Another thing about many RPGs is you typically go around fighting monsters or enemies and defeating them in battles, in physical combat, rather than talking things out. Although there are some RPGs where you can talk things out with other characters and there is more of that than fighting, RPGs that are more dialogue-heavy with less fighting. Anyway, Absurd Saga is one that is mostly dialogue and social interactions with other characters. Also typically in RPGs you can recruit a certain number of other characters into your party to join you as playable characters but usually the number is fairly small. Some RPGs have a much higher number, such as Chrono Cross, with a number of playable characters you can recruit in the 40s, which is complete overkill and rather absurd. But obviously Chrono Cross does not go far enough, from the perspective of trying to write a parody game. So in Absurd Saga, literally all characters other than the player character can be recruited to join you. And fitting in with the player character being rather crazy and ambitious like many anime protagonists, the main character wants to recruit everyone in existence into joining their party, and all characters can be recruited. In other RPGs when you randomly encounter enemies, it is random enemy encounters, but Absurd Saga is going to have random frenemy encounters, where you can actually befriend anyone you encounter. Or you can piss them off and have them be hostile. But actual physical fights are going to be a relatively rare thing in Absurd Saga, just like in the real world, to subvert the whole video game trope of going around fighting enemies all the time and have it be more about social interactions just like the real world.

Also as far as the social interactions go, the game is going to be from a neurodivergent point of view, from the point of view of someone who thinks differently, perhaps you might call it the autism spectrum or maybe something else, but the main character you play as definitely sees things differently from others and might struggle with social interactions a whole lot. Or might find them very easy and be very charismatic. Who knows? There are endless possibilities. Typically you would be most likely to start out the game with very low social skills and end it with extremely good social skills, but maybe the opposite could happen too. Instead of having it be like a game where you level up and get more powerful, you might do the equivalent of losing levels and getting less powerful. Or not. Whatever. The point is, Absurd Saga is chaotic and all sorts of things could happen. Including violence and fighting. But not necessarily. That is not necessarily the default like in so many other video games. But if you really want to go around fighting everyone, yeah, that could happen. Because it would be sort of like an open-world game where you can do whatever you want. Also, while maybe the default is that you are sort of the villain, that is not necessarily the case, and you don’t have to play that way if you don’t want to, that is just the default or most common way for things to happen. You could actually play as a heroic character if you want and keep anything bad from happening and preserve the utopia, maybe. Or maybe not. It depends.

Another thing is that none of the characters or settings in the game should be based on real people or settings, or ones from other works of fiction. Absurd Saga needs to be an original creative work. It can have inspiration from other fictional works but that is different from directly basing something on another fictional work. It is important for all the characters to be original so that everything about them can be made up, changed, modified. Basing them on a real person or existing fictional character from another work makes them set in stone, as an imitation of something else. They can be inspired by archetypes or tropes or similar to stereotypes but they have to be unique and original examples of those. That helps Absurd Saga be a more unique work of creative fiction that is interactive.

Also the very nature of the reality you live in and the world it is can be altered depending on your choices. Maybe you live in a simulation like the Matrix. Maybe the world you live in is an MMORPG and you are an NPC and you encounter the actual players who disrespect you for being an NPC. Maybe it genuinely is just a fantasy world. Maybe it is a parallel universe to our universe. Maybe it is all a dream. Maybe it is an isekai situation where you were from our world and died and got reincarnated in another world that happens to be a fantasy world. Maybe you just tell the game that you are a player in the real world playing the game Absurd Saga and that is just the reality and it is just a game. Maybe it is all just a dream. Maybe it is all hallucinations and delusions and you are a mental patient and eventually snap out of it. Maybe you just did a lot of drugs. Maybe this is the future and everything that appears to be magic is just technology so advanced it seems like magic, invented by aliens or a superintelligent AI or something. Maybe this is the past back in the time fairy tales full of magic are set in and magic used to be real back then but eventually disappeared. Maybe some combination of these are true or all of them are true or none of them are true, even though they contradict each other and that would not make any sense.

That is the whole point of Absurd Saga, it is not supposed to make sense. The fundamental nature of reality, which of these if any is true, it is something that constantly changes and is in a state of chaos, very unstable, it could be one thing one minute and the exact opposite a minute later. Absurd Saga is ultimately a self-parody, parodying itself more than anything else. And if the universe it is set in in unstable and the rules defining it can change at any time depending on your choices, that makes it a world of unlimited possibilities where you can change the rules to be whatever you want. It is also meant to be a subversive game that parodies anything and everything, and makes people think differently, by having its world operate in a completely counterintuitive way very different from our real world, and having it explore a lot of different ideas and just be very weird and funny and full of endless opportunities to have fun in different wacky ways nobody would ever expect. It is an absurdist critique of anything and everything.

This is the philosophy behind the game Absurd Saga, the reason for its existence. Other people are welcome to join this project and contribute to it, but contributors need to follow this philosophy here when adding to the game and not turn it into something conventional or serious or put ads in it or anything else going against this. Also, while it is a free game and open source and not for sale, at some point when enough work has been done, there will be a way to donate money to the creators, maybe a Patreon or other crowdfunding thing or a donate link or something. That would be completely optional and not open up any bonus content when you play the game, everyone would get exactly the same experience when they play the game. Possibly you might be able to get your name added to the credits if you donate money, or something like that. But it would still be completely free, obviously.

Even with the game currently nowhere near completion, the philosophy behind the game Absurd Saga is pretty much complete. That is important because this document will guide all development of the game, this document is sort of like the guiding document or constitution or founding document of the game. The game needs to consistently stick to this philosophy most of the time, except it could occasionally do the exact opposite sometimes just as a joke or to surprise people or for fun. Except not really, it really ought to stick to what this document says, because doing the opposite would make the game worse and make it less fun. The game needs to be as fun as possible and have endless replayability. And it needs to be the type of game that people who do not usually play games are able to play easily. Any obstacle to that should be removed, any obstacle to this being a free fun game for as many people as possible to be able to play regardless of what device or operating system they use or what language they speak or whether or not they have ever played games before or what their skill level is. Absurd Saga is a game intended for everyone in the entire world! Even non-human animals should be able to play it, somehow. Maybe. Whatever. It doesn’t matter. Just play the game and enjoy it... or else! You have been warned.
